---
layout: post
title: 'PANGeA'
description: PANGeA is a system that uses large language models (LLMs) to create narrative content for turn-based RPGs based on game designers' high-level criteria. It introduces a novel validation system for handling free-form text input during development and gameplay, employing "self-reflection" techniques. It enriches player-NPC interactions by generating personality-biased non-playable characters (NPCs) that exhibit traits from the Big 5 Personality Model. PANGeA houses a server with a custom memory system (see "gaia") that provides context for LLM generation. The server's REST interface enables integration with any game engine.
date:   2023-11-12 15:01:35 +0300
image:  '/images/PAN.jpg'
tags:   [Intelligent Agents, Human Computation Gaming, Dark Shadows, NLP]
---

Read the pre-print: [https://arxiv.org/pdf/2404.19721](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2404.19721) 

Large language models (LLMs) offer unprecedented flexibility in procedural generation, enabling the creation of dynamic video game storylines that evolve with user input. A critical aspect of realizing this potential is allowing users and developers to provide dynamic or free-form text to drive generation. Ingesting free-form text for a video game poses challenges, however, as it can prompt the LLM to generate content beyond the intended narrative scope. In response to this challenge, this research introduces Procedural Artificial Narrative using Generative AI (PANGeA) for leveraging large language models (LLMs) to create narrative content for turn-based, role-playing games (RPGs). PANGeA is an approach comprised of components including a memory system, validation system, a Unity game engine plug-in, and a server with a RESTful interface that enables connecting PANGeA components with any game engine as well as accessing local and private LLMs. PANGeA procedurally generates level data like setting, key items, non-playable characters (NPCs)), and dialogue based on a set of configuration and design rules provided by the game designer. This process is supported by a novel validation system for handling free-form text input during game development and gameplay, which aligns LLM generation with a game narrative. It does this by evoking the LLM's intelligence to dynamically evaluate the text input against game rules that reinforce the designer's intent. To enrich player-NPC interactions, PANGeA uses the Big Five Personality model to shape NPC responses. To explore its broad application, PANGeA is tested across 10 different role-playing game scenarios–from western to science fiction–and across three model sizes: Llama-3 (8B), GPT-3.5, and GPT-4. The study demonstrates how PANGeA's NPCs can hold dynamic, narrative-consistent conversations that, without the memory system, would exceed the LLM's context length. The results demonstrate a significant finding: PANGeA's validation system not only aligns LLM responses with the game narrative but also improves the performance of Llama-3 (8B), enabling it to perform comparably to large-scale foundational models like GPT-4. With the validation system, Llama-3 (8B)'s performance improved from 28% accuracy to 98%, and GPT-4's from 71% to 99%. These findings indicate PANGeA can help game designers generate narrative-consistent content while leveraging LLMs of different sizes, suitable for various devices.




