---
layout: post
title: 'GAME-KG'
description: Knowledge graphs (KGs) can augment large langauge models (LLMs) and also provide an explainable set of facts that can be inspected by a human. Explainability is particularly valuable for domains that may otherwise avoid LLMs because of hallucinations, such as human trafficking data analysis. Creating KGs poses challenges, however. KGs parsed from documents may include explicit connections (those directly stated in a document) but miss implicit connections (those evident to a human although not directly stated).  This research introducses the GAME-KG framework, an approach to modifying explicit and implicit KG connections using crowdsourced feedback collected through video games.
date:   2023-10-10 15:01:35 +0300
image:  '/images/GAME-KG.png'
tags:   [Human Computation Gaming, Dark Shadows, Knowledge Graphs, Human in the Loop, NLP]
---

Featured in IEEE Conference on Games (CoG) 2024.

See the pre-print: [https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19729](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19729) 

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in performing various natural language processing (NLP) tasks, including extracting semantic information and inferring cohesive text responses based on human input. However, their application within accuracy critical domains--such as human trafficking data analysis--is limited due to a lack of explainability in results. An LLM's mechanism for generating a response is opaque and may contain unwanted biases or "hallucinations" (generated text that is semantically possible but factually incorrect). In accuracy critical domains, explainability is crucial for trusting LLM generated results and validating them when needed.

Providing LLMs with external, structured representations of facts in the form of knowledge graphs (KGs) has proven useful for addressing this limitation. KGs represent information as structured relations between entities, which make a "domain model," along with schematic information, which make up an "ontology." Information can be retrieved from KGs to augment LLM generated responses in an explainable way, as human analysts can visually interpret the connections between nodes of the graph and view the structured path of facts from which information was derived.

While using KGs to augment LLM responses has proven beneficial, obtaining KGs that represent domain information poses challenges. KGs can be parsed from documents, but capturing the many entity relationship from within text may not be feasible with computational approaches alone. For instance, a KG parsed from text may include explicit relations between entities (e.g. semantic relations as directly expressed in words), but may not include implicit relations (e.g. relations that may be clear to a human, but not to the computer). In other cases it may be desirable to modify the explicit relationships of a KG, given that the connections might be incorrect. 

For these reasons, this research introduces the GAME-KG framework (standing for "Gaming for Augmenting Metadata and Enhancing Knowledge Graphs"). GAME-KG is a federated approach to modifying KGs that facilitates the collection of explicit as well as implicit knowledge. It leverages Human Computation Gaming (HCG)--a method of collecting feedback from crowds through video games--to modify and validate KGs. 
